







PA-18-794: AHRQ Small Research Grant Program (R03)











Department of Health and Human Services
Part 1. Overview Information

Participating Organization(s)

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) 
NOTE:  The policies, guidelines, terms, and conditions
      stated in this announcement may differ from those used by the NIH.  Where
      this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) provides specific written
      guidance that may differ from the general guidance provided in the grant application
      form, please follow the instructions given in this FOA.




Components
    of Participating Organizations

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) 




Funding Opportunity Title

AHRQ Small Research Grant Program (R03)




Activity Code

R03 Small
      Research Grant Program




Announcement Type

Re-Issue of PA-15-147 





Related Notices

January 11, 2023 - AHRQ Announces Interest in Research on Climate Change and Healthcare. See Notice NOT-HS-23-006
June 07, 2022 - Notice to Extend PA-18-794. See Notice NOT-HS-22-016
March 16, 2022 - AHRQ Announces Interest in Primary Care Research. See Notice NOT-HS-22-011
February 17, 2022 - AHRQ Announces Interest in Health Services Research on Health System and Healthcare Professional Responsiveness to COVID-19. See Notice NOT-HS-22-010
October 28, 2021 - Reminder: FORMS-G Grant Application Forms & Instructions Must be Used for Due Dates On or After January 25, 2022 - New Grant Application Instructions Now Available. See Notice NOT-OD-22-018.

August 5, 2021 - New NIH "FORMS-G" Grant Application Forms and Instructions Coming for Due Dates on or after January 25, 2022. 
See Notice NOT-OD-21-169.

August 5, 2021 - Update: Notification of Upcoming Change in Federal-wide Unique Entity Identifier Requirements. 
See Notice NOT-OD-21-170.

April 20, 2021 - Expanding Requirement for eRA Commons IDs to All Senior/Key Personnel. 
See Notice NOT-OD-21-109.

April 29, 2021 - Special Emphasis Notice (SEN): AHRQ Announces Interest in Health Services Research to Advance Health Equity. See Notice NOT-HS-21-014.
April 27, 2021 - Notice to Extend PA-18-794. See Notice NOT-HS-21-013.
March 02, 2021 - Special Emphasis Notice (SEN): AHRQ Announces Interest in Health Services Research to Address Substance Use Disorder Epidemic. See Notice NOT-HS-21-010.
March 10, 2020 - Reminder: FORMS-F Grant Application Forms & Instructions Must be Used for Due Dates On or After May 25, 2020- New Grant Application Instructions Now Available. See Notice NOT-OD-20-077. 
January 10, 2020 - AHRQ Guide Notice on Implementation of the Use of a Single Institutional Review Board (IRB) for Cooperative Research at 45 CFR 46.114 (b). See Notice NOT-HS-20-005.
November 22, 2019 - New NIH "FORMS-F" Grant Application Forms and Instructions Coming for Due Dates on or after May 25, 2020. See Notice NOT-OD-20-026.
August 23, 2019 - 
Clarifying Competing Application Instructions and Notice of Publication of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Regarding Proposed Human Fetal Tissue Research. See Notice 
NOT-OD-19-137. 

July 26, 2019 - 
Changes to NIH Requirements Regarding Proposed Human Fetal Tissue Research. See Notice NOT-OD-19-128.

April 23, 2019 - Notice of Clarification: Application Types for PA-18-794,  AHRQ Small Research Grant Program (R03). See Notice NOT-HS-19-014.
March 20, 2019 - NIH & AHRQ Announce Upcoming Updates to Application Instructions and Review Criteria for Research Grant Applications. See Notice NOT-OD-18-228.
February 25, 2019 - Special Emphasis Notice (SEN): Health Services Research Priorities for Achieving a High Value Healthcare System. See Notice NOT-HS-19-011.
January 11, 2019 - AHRQ Implementation of Final Rule on the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects (Common Rule). See Notice NOT-HS-19-008.
January 11, 2019 - AHRQ Announces Change in Grant Recipient Purchasing of Identifiable CMS Data, effective FY2019. See Notice NOT-HS-19-007.
September 17, 2018  - Notice of Clarification: Research Strategy page limit for PA-18-794. See Notice NOT-HS-18-016.August 02, 2018 - Special Emphasis Notice (SEN): AHRQ Announces Interest in Health Services Research to Address the Opioids Crisis. See Notice NOT-HS-18-015. 




Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) Number

PA-18-794




Companion Funding Opportunity

None 




Number of
    Applications

See Section III. 3.
      Additional Information on Eligibility. 




Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s) 

   93.226




Funding Opportunity Purpose

This FOA encourages Small Research Grant (R03) applications,
      and expresses AHRQ priority areas of interest for ongoing small research
      projects. The R03 grant mechanism supports different types of health services
      research projects including pilot and feasibility studies; secondary analysis
      of existing data; small, self-contained research projects; development of
      research methodology; and development of new research technology.



Key Dates

Posted Date

May 21, 2018




Open Date (Earliest Submission Date)

September 17, 2018 




Letter of Intent Due Date(s)

Not Applicable. 




Application Due Date(s)

Standard
      dates apply), by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization. 
Applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate
      time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the
      submission process by the due date.




AIDS Application Due Date(s)

Not applicable.




Scientific Merit Review 

Generally, four months after receipt date.




Advisory Council Review

Not applicable. 




Earliest Start Date

Generally, four months after peer review date.




Expiration Date

New Date July 8, 2023 per issuance of NOT-HS-22-016. (Original Expiration Date: July 7, 2022)   




Due Dates for E.O. 12372 

Not Applicable



Required
  Application Instructions
It is critical that applicants follow the Research (R) Instructions
  in the SF424
  (R&R) Application Guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in
  this FOA or in a Notice from the NIH
  Guide for Grants and Contracts). Conformance to all requirements (both
  in the Application Guide and the FOA) is required and strictly enforced. Applicants
  must read and follow all application instructions in the Application Guide as
  well as any program-specific instructions noted in Section IV, and follow the AHRQ Grants
  Policy and Guidance found on the AHRQ website at http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/foaguidance/index.html.
  When the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the Application
  Guide, follow the program-specific instructions. 
Applications that do not comply with these
  instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.


Table of Contents
Part 1. Overview Information
Part 2. Full Text of the Announcement
Section
  I. Funding Opportunity Description
Section II. Award Information
Section III. Eligibility Information
Section IV. Application and Submission
  Information
Section V. Application Review Information
Section VI. Award Administration Information
Section VII. Agency Contacts
Section VIII. Other Information
Part 2.
  Full Text of Announcement
Section I. Funding Opportunity Description
Scope of this FOA:
Small research (R03) grants provide flexibility for
  initiating studies which are generally for preliminary or short-term
  projects.  These grants are non-renewable.  Some examples of the
  types of projects that R03 research supports include:

 Pilot or feasibility studies
 Secondary analysis of existing data
 Small, self-contained research projects
 Development of research methodology
 Development of new research technology

The AHRQ small grant is a mechanism for supporting discrete,
  well-defined projects that realistically can be completed within two years (or
  less) within the budget constraints of the mechanism.  Because the
  research strategy section of the application is limited to 6 pages, an R03
  grant application may not contain the same level of detail as that found in an
  R01 application. Accordingly, appropriate justification for the proposed work
  can be provided through literature citations, data from other sources, or from
  investigator-generated data. Preliminary data are not required, particularly in
  applications proposing pilot or feasibility studies.
The Small Research Grant (R03) is an award made by AHRQ to an
  institution/organization to support a discrete health services research
  project. The R03 research strategy proposed by the applicant
  institution/organization must be related to the mission and research interests
  of AHRQ, which are detailed below.  Although the PD/PI is responsible for
  conducting and supervising the research, the actual applicant is the research
  institution/organization legally accountable for the performance of the award
  and the expenditure of funds.
 AHRQ
  Mission and Research Areas of Interest:
The AHRQ mission is to produce evidence to make health care
  safer, higher quality, more ac­cessible, equitable and affordable, and to work
  with HHS and other partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and
  used.  Within this mission, AHRQ’s specific priority areas of focus are:

 Research to improve health care patient safety.
 Harnessing data and technology to improve health care quality and
    patient outcomes and to provide a 360-degree view of the patient.
 Research to increase accessibility and affordability of health
    care by examining innovative market approaches to care delivery and financing.

Research
  to Improve Health Care Patient Safety
Patient safety is defined as the freedom from accidental or
  preventable injury produced by health care as well as the practices that create
  a safe environment of care. The ultimate goal of AHRQ-supported Patient Safety
  research is to improve the safety of health care delivery. Patient safety
  research initiatives that lead to this goal can be considered in three
  different stages:

 Identification of risks, hazards, and patient harm.
 Design, implementation, dissemination and spread, and evaluation
    of interventions to improve patient safety.
 Establishment of strategies to sustain patient safety
    improvements such as just culture, incident/event reporting, measurement,
    monitoring, and surveillance.

AHRQ's Patient Safety Research Program: (1) identifies
  specific areas of focus through targeted grant funding announcements (i.e.,
  Program Announcements, Requests for Applications, and Special Emphasis Notices)
  and (2) encourages investigators to utilize the Agency's general funding
  announcements to apply this research framework in response to other patient
  safety threats and opportunities for improvement.
The Patient Safety Portfolio will support research projects
  to create new knowledge by identifying the risks, hazards, and harm encountered
  by patients as a result of health care. The Portfolio will also support
  projects that mitigate those risks, hazards, and harm including the design,
  implementation and evaluation of strategies (patient safety practices) and the
  adaptation, refinement, and sustainment of those strategies. These initiatives
  are part of the Agency's overall mission to improve the quality of health care.
AHRQ encourages an interdisciplinary, systems science
  patient safety approach. In addition to health services research, perspectives
  from organizational theory, human factors, industrial engineering, facilities
  design, education, and other disciplines can be incorporated in research plans.
Projects may address important topics such as: the
  surveillance, measurement, detection, and reporting of patient safety events;
  the impact of human performance, work flow, and working conditions on patient
  safety; the patients' role and contribution to patient safety; health care
  safety culture, leadership, communication, teamwork, and simulation; prevention
  and control of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs); diagnostic safety and
  quality; the safe use of medical devices and medications, including safely
  prescribing opioids; the role of Patient Safety Organizations; and the
  challenges inherent in transitions of care in the same setting and between
  settings and handoffs between health care providers.
Research related to the prevention and control of HAIs is an
  instructive example of AHRQ’s Patient Safety research interests. AHRQ supports
  research whose short-term or long-term aim is to develop improved methods for
  preventing HAIs and to develop effective implementation strategies for HAI
  prevention in all health care settings. Accordingly, AHRQ’s foci of interest in
  HAI research are the following broad areas:

 Determination of the clinical efficacy and effectiveness of
    preventive interventions, including unintended adverse consequences.
 Characterization and assessment of relevant epidemiological
    aspects of HAIs, including but not limited to patient risk factors, clinical
    presentation, and sources of antibiotic-resistant organisms involved in the
    development of HAIs.
 Demonstration, dissemination, and evaluation of strategies and
    approaches for prevention and reduction of HAIs.
 Research regarding adoption and implementation (including
    sustainment, spread, and scale-up) of evidence-based approaches for prevention
    of HAIs.

The HAI research portfolio also encompasses generation of
  knowledge for combating antibiotic resistant bacteria. AHRQ is interested in
  studies to promote appropriate antibiotic use, reduce the transmission of
  resistant bacteria, and prevent HAIs in the first place. The last contributes
  to antibiotic stewardship by avoiding the need for antibiotic therapy and
  precludes the possibility of a resistant infection.
Clinical investigations that seek to establish the efficacy
  or effectiveness of preventive interventions, as noted above, typically involve
  a comparison of the intervention in question to routine care or, less
  frequently, to a placebo (when the latter is ethical). Such clinical studies
  are included in the scope of AHRQ’s HAI research portfolio. The HAI Portfolio
  does not fund comparisons of two interventions of known efficacy or
  effectiveness to determine which is more efficacious or effective. Such studies
  are comparative effectiveness research, which is more appropriately funded by
  other funding sources.
The Portfolio supports research in all health care settings
  including the hospital, long-term care, ambulatory care, home health care,
  pharmacy, and transitions of care between settings.
Patient safety research involves many stakeholder groups
  including patients, families, clinicians, non-clinical health care staff,
  policymakers, payers, and health care organizations including providers and
  accreditors, local and State governments, and the Federal Government, Patient
  Safety Organizations, and many others.
Projects in this area may also address patient
  characteristics that might influence the risk of experiencing a patient safety
  event, for example, attributes of AHRQ's priority populations that can impact
  patient safety and address strategies to address barriers to safe care.
Harnessing
  Data and Technology To Improve Health Care Quality and Patient Outcomes and To
  Provide a 360-Degree View of the Patient
AHRQ is interested in research to: advance the methods of
  evidence synthesis to ensure scientific rigor and unbiased reviews, make
  evidence-based recommendations on clinical preventive services, conduct
  research on how health information technology can improve the quality of health
  care, advance the science of clinical practice improvement, evaluate and
  support innovative models of practice transformation in primary care and other
  ambulatory settings, and facilitate communities of learning to promote the
  implementation of evidence for practice improvement. Further, AHRQ is interested
  in studying and improving upon the process by which health systems and
  ambulatory care practices select evidence to implement and how to determine
  what strategies are used to implement the evidence into everyday practice. The
  study of implementation strategies and processes is critical because
  interventions developed in the context of publically funded efficacy and
  effectiveness trials are rarely scalable without adaptations to specific
  settings and additional tools and guidance to support uptake and implementation.
  AHRQ is also interested in research that advances whole-person, 360-degree care
  especially those with multiple chronic conditions and/or socioeconomic
  disadvantage. Whole person, 360-degree care is defined as the coordination of
  health, behavioral health, intellectual/developmental disabilities, and social
  services in a person-centered manner with the goals of improved health outcomes
  and more efficient and effective use of resources in the context of people’s
  lives and the communities they live in. Emphasis is on the orientation of the
  health care team to consider all domains of a person’s life when assessing and
  addressing needs. The following lists examples of AHRQ research priorities:
Improving
  health care quality outcomes by providing integrated, coordinated whole-person,
  360-degree care to optimize individual and population health outcomes: 

 Generation of knowledge about how clinical teams can most
    effectively elicit and use a patient’s values; preferences; and personal,
    social, and clinical context to formulate and use plans of care in partnership
    with patients, caregivers, and families. Preferences, values, and context may
    be specific to the situation and also can change over time. Therefore,
    proposals that address how the process of care planning and the care plans
    themselves will identify and respond to the specific and dynamic nature of
    patients’ circumstances are of interest.
 Development of information and data to create/foster/support
    partnerships and linkages between health care and human service systems
    (community-based organizations and public health) to improve whole-person care.
    These could be focused on improving care coordination and strengthening care
    transitions, ensuring that care is fully integrated to support the whole person
    and family.
 Improvement of health care quality through the use of information
    systems and data resources that both provide meaningful clinical decision
    support to health care professionals and patients and families at the point of
    care and that capture important actions and outcomes of health care to increase
    evidence on effective practices and support clinical and organizational
    improvement.
 Implementation of clinical prevention guidelines into learning
    health systems with innovative ways to include patients’ preferences and values
    in order to empower whole person-centered care.
 Development and study of models of shared decision making that
    are tailored to the needs of disadvantaged populations.
 Development of whole-person care research to improve health and
    health services efforts in persons with multiple chronic conditions.
 Development, implementation, and evaluation of models of primary
    care for individuals with complexity, including multiple chronic conditions,
    disability, and socioeconomic disadvantage that improve individual and
    population health while reducing disparities.

Implement
  research findings in order to accelerate the spread of evidence-based practices
  by:

 Implementation of evidence-based approaches to identify,
    understand, and overcome barriers to the adoption, adaptation, integration,
    scale-up, and sustainability of evidence-based interventions, tools, policies,
    and guidelines.
 Research on de-implementation of the use of health system
    procedures and clinical practices that are ineffective, have been prematurely
    widely adopted, or are harmful or wasteful.
 Development of a parsimonious set of meaningful measures to
    evaluate implementation and impact of whole-person care.
 Development of innovative ways to use data and health information
    technology (IT) in primary care practices in order to increase uptake and
    implementation of preventive services, especially those involving behavioral
    change (e.g. obesity prevention, substance use prevention).
 Development of methods underlying the fields of evidence
    synthesis, stakeholder and patient engagement, decision making, and practice
    improvement.

Accelerating
  the ability of health care organizations to evolve as learning health systems
  that effectively apply data and evidence to improve patient outcomes by:

 Synthesizing, translating, and communicating complex scientific
    evidence to facilitate informed care planning and health care decision making
    by patients, families, and health care professionals at the individual level
    and informed policy decision making at the health system and population level.
 Discovering, testing, and spreading methods and strategies for
    health care practice improvement to improve health care quality, including
    accelerating the sustainable implementation of evidence-based practice. AHRQ
    has particular interest in practice improvement in primary care and ambulatory
    settings.
 Demonstrating the effectiveness of synthesizing, translating, and
    communicating complex scientific evidence to facilitate informed care planning
    and health care decision making by patients, families, and health care
    professionals at the individual level and informed policy decision making at
    the health system and population level.

Research to Increase Accessibility and Affordability of
  Health Care by Examining Innovative Market Approaches to Care Delivery and
  Financing
Producing evidence that can be used to increase the
  affordability and efficiency of health care for all Americans is a major AHRQ
  priority. Potential research areas and questions include but are not limited to
  the following:
Reducing
  Cost Growth: In order to make health care more affordable, we
  must understand the drivers of those costs and their growth, as well as the
  relationship between cost and quality.
Comparing
  Performance of Systems and Providers: AHRQ is interested in
  research that will allow comparison of delivery system and provider performance
  by health care stakeholders such as consumers, providers, payers, insurers, and
  policymakers.
Incentives
  for Improving Performance: Public and private payers have
  provided a variety of financial and nonfinancial incentives to improve the
  performance of health care providers and systems. AHRQ is interested in
  research on the impacts of these changes—both intended and otherwise—as well as
  how to improve incentive programs.
Interventions
  to Improve Performance: While alignment with external
  incentives is very important, it is the provider or system that implements
  interventions to increase performance. AHRQ is interested in research on how
  interventions to improve quality or cost are best implemented within and spread
  across providers and systems.
Access to health insurance coverage remains a critical
  public policy issue. Health insurance helps people get timely access to medical
  care and protects them against the risk of expensive and unanticipated medical
  events. Accurate and informed public policy analysis and policy design require
  precise estimates of the size and composition of the insured and uninsured
  populations, as well as information on how demographic characteristics,
  economic factors and health insurance subsidies affect health plan eligibility,
  decisions to enroll in health insurance plans and trends in health care
  expenditures and affordability. Evaluation of the equity and stability of the
  health insurance market requires information on the ease with which health
  insurance transitions are made and how satisfied individuals are with their
  plans, as well as the affordability of coverage.
Understanding how changes in policy affect the evolution of
  health insurance markets and the health insurance landscape is an important
  area for study. For example, innovations in health insurance markets, such as
  the increasing use of high-deductible health plans or changes in the
  cost-sharing structure of plans, are important developments to be analyzed.
  Other issues of interest include the relationship between changing health
  insurance markets and structural changes in the American workplace; analyses to
  improve our understanding of the impact of health care reform on coverage,
  access, and affordability; and evaluating the effects of changes in health
  insurance benefits on consumers' financial burdens and access to care.
AHRQ is engaged in efforts to provide evidence related to
  topics such as health insurance coverage, access to care and health care costs.
  Potential research areas and questions include, but are not limited to:

 What is the impact of Medicaid and private health insurance
    coverage changes on enrollment, access, health care use and expenditures,
    health care disparities, affordability and outcomes?
 What methods are most effective in assisting people to understand
    health insurance coverage options and to enroll in coverage?
 How will changes in the demographics of the population affect health
    care access, coverage decisions, and health care expenditures?
 What factors affect the decisions that employers and employees
    make about employer-sponsored coverage, such as those related to plan
    characteristics, offer, and take-up rates?
 What is the impact of health IT innovation and health information
    exchanges on costs?

AHRQ's Interests in Comparative Effectiveness Research
AHRQ informs the research community of priorities for
  comparative effectiveness research (CER). CER is research that compares and
  evaluates the benefits and risks of two or more health care options. CER
  projects that seek to compare different ways of organizing and delivering
  health care are a priority for AHRQ. These studies may consider health
  outcomes, patient and family experience, staff satisfaction, and health care
  utilization among other research outcomes. CER proposals that seek to compare
  the clinical effectiveness of specific medications and treatments, diagnostic
  tools, technologies, procedures, surgeries and other specific preventive,
  diagnostic, or therapeutic services are not a priority of AHRQ.
These areas, relevant to Small Research Grant (R03)
  applications submitted to AHRQ, are also articulated at (http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/foaguidance/index.html). 
  Applicants may contact a member of AHRQ's program staff if they would like help
  focusing the research plan based on an understanding of the AHRQ mission and
  research priorities.  AHRQ staff contacts can be found at http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/priorities-contacts/contacts/index.html.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to address health
  services research issues critical to AHRQ priority populations, including:
  individuals living in inner city and rural (including frontier) areas;
  low-income and minority groups; women, children, and the elderly; and
  individuals with special health care needs, including those with disabilities
  and those who need chronic or end-of-life health care.  
See Section
  VIII. Other Information for award authorities and regulations.
Section II. Award
  Information

Funding Instrument

Grant: A support mechanism providing money, property, or
      both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity. 




Application Types Allowed

New 
Renewal
Resubmission


The OER
      Glossary and the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide provide details on
      these application types.




Clinical Trial?

Optional




Funds Available and Anticipated Number of Awards 

The number of awards is contingent upon AHRQ
      appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious
      applications.  Future year amounts will depend on funding availability.
Because the nature and scope of the proposed research will
      vary from application to application, it is anticipated that the size and
      duration of each award will also vary.




Award Budget
Application budgets are limited to $100,000 total costs
      (including direct and indirect costs) for the entire project period, regardless
      of the length of the proposed project period.  
An application with a budget that exceeds $100,000 total
      costs for the entire project period will not be reviewed 
Funds may be used only for those expenses that are
      directly related and necessary to the project and must be expended in
      compliance with applicable Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
      Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Awards (45 CFR Part 75) and the
      HHS Grants Policy
      Statement. 

Award Project Period

The scope of the proposed project should determine the
        project period.  The maximum project period for an application submitted
        under this FOA is 2 years.



These projects are authorized by 42 U.S.C. 299a, which
    provides that AHRQ shall conduct and support research, support demonstration
    projects, and disseminate information on health care and on systems for the delivery
    of such care, including activities with respect to the quality, effectiveness,
    efficiency, appropriateness, and value of health care services.
All applications submitted and AHRQ grants made in response
    to this FOA are subject to 45 CFR Part 75 (Uniform Administrative Requirements,
    Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for HHS Awards; http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75),
    the HHS Grants Policy Statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html),
    and the terms and conditions set forth in the Notice of Award.
Section III. Eligibility
    Information
1. Eligible Applicants
Eligible Organizations
Higher Education Institutions

 Public/State Controlled Institutions of Higher Education 
 Private Institutions of Higher Education 

The following types of Higher Education Institutions
    are always encouraged to apply for AHRQ support as Public or Private
    Institutions of Higher Education: 

 Hispanic-serving Institutions
 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)
 Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs) 
 Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions
 Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving
      Institutions (AANAPISIs)

Nonprofits Other Than Institutions of Higher Education

 Nonprofits with 501(c)(3) IRS Status (Other than Institutions of
      Higher Education) 
 Nonprofits without 501(c)(3) IRS Status (Other than Institutions
      of Higher Education) 

Governments

 State Governments 
 County Governments
 City or Township Governments
 Special District Governments
 Indian/Native American Tribal Governments (Federally Recognized) 
 Indian/Native American Tribal Governments (Other than Federally
      Recognized)
 Eligible Agencies of the Federal Government
 U.S. Territory or Possession

Other

 Native American Tribal Organizations (other than Federally
      recognized tribal governments)
 Faith-based or Community-based Organizations
 Regional Organizations

 AHRQ’s authorizing legislation does not allow
    for-profit organizations to be eligible to lead applications under this
    research mechanism.  For-profit organizations may participate in projects
    as members of consortia or as subcontractors only.  Because the purpose of
    this program is to improve healthcare in the United States, foreign
    institutions may participate in projects as members of consortia or as
    subcontractors only.  Applications submitted by for-profit organizations
    or foreign institutions will not be reviewed.  Organizations described in
    section 501(c) 4 of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying are not
    eligible.
HHS grants policy requires that the grant recipient perform
    a substantive role in the conduct of the planned project or program activity
    and not merely serve as a conduit of funds to another party or parties. If
    consortium/contractual activities represent a significant portion of the
    overall project, the applicant must justify why the applicant organization,
    rather than the party(s) performing this portion of the overall project, should
    be the grantee and what substantive role the applicant organization will play.
    Justification can be provided in the Specific Aims or Research Strategy section
    of the PHS398 Research Plan Component sections of the SF424 (R&R)
    application.  There is no budget allocation guideline for determining
    substantial involvement; determination of substantial involvement is based on a
    review of the primary project activities for which grant support is provided
    and the organization(s) that will be performing those activities.
Foreign Institutions
Non-domestic (non-U.S.) Entities (Foreign Institutions) are
    not eligible to apply.
    Non-domestic (non-U.S.) components of U.S. Organizations are not eligible
    to apply.. 
Required
    Registrations
Applicant
    Organizations
Applicant organizations must complete and maintain the
    following registrations as described in the SF 424 (R&R) Application Guide
    to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. All registrations must be
    completed prior to the application being submitted. Registration can take 6
    weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as
    possible. 

 Dun and Bradstreet Universal Numbering
      System (DUNS) - All registrations require that applicants be issued a DUNS
      number. After obtaining a DUNS number, applicants can begin both SAM and eRA
      Commons registrations. The same DUNS number must be used for all registrations,
      as well as on the grant application.
 System for Award
      Management (https://www.sam.gov/portal/SAM/#1) (formerly CCR) – Applicants
      must complete and maintain an active registration, which requires renewal at least
        annually. The renewal process may require as much time as the
      initial registration. SAM registration includes the assignment of a Commercial
      and Government Entity (CAGE) Code for domestic organizations which have not
      already been assigned a CAGE Code. 
 eRA
      Commons - Applicants must have an active DUNS number and SAM registration
      in order to complete the eRA Commons registration. Organizations can register
      with the eRA Commons as they are working through their SAM or Grants.gov
      registration. eRA Commons requires organizations to identify at least one
      Signing Official (SO) and at least one Program Director/Principal Investigator
      (PD/PI) account in order to submit an application. 
 Grants.gov – Applicants must have an active DUNS number and SAM registration in order to
      complete the Grants.gov registration. 

Program
    Directors/Principal Investigators (PD(s)/PI(s)) 
All PD(s)/PI(s) must have an eRA Commons account.
     PD(s)/PI(s) should work with their organizational officials to either
    create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant
    organization in eRA Commons. If a PD/PI is also the organizational Signing Official,
    they must have two distinct eRA Commons accounts, one for each role. Obtaining
    an eRA Commons account can take up to 2 weeks.
Eligible Individuals (Program Director/Principal
    Investigator)
Any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources
    necessary to carry out the proposed research as the Program Director(s)/Principal
    Investigator(s) (PD(s)/PI(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to
    develop an application for support. Individuals from underrepresented racial
    and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always
    encouraged to apply for AHRQ support.
For institutions/organizations proposing multiple PDs/PIs, visit
    the Multiple Program Director/Principal Investigator Policy and submission
    details in the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Component of the SF424
    (R&R) Application Guide. See also AHRQ's NOT-HS-16-018 related to Multiple
    PD/PI via https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-HS-16-018.html. 
2. Cost Sharing
This FOA does not require cost sharing.
While there is no cost sharing requirement included in this
    RFA, AHRQ welcomes applicant institutions, including any collaborating
    institutions, to devote resources to this effort.  An indication of
    institutional support from the applicant and its collaborators indicates a
    greater potential of success and sustainability of the project. Examples
    of institutional support would include: donated equipment and space,
    institutional funded staff time and effort, or other resource
    investments. Applicant institutions should indicate institutional support
    by outlining the specific contributions to the project and providing assurances
    that their organization and any collaborators are committed to providing these
    funds and resources to the project. This information can be included at the end
    of the budget justification section of the application, but institutional
    support dollars are not to be shown/included in the detailed budget request.
3. Additional Information on Eligibility
Number of Applications
Applicant organizations may submit more than one application,
    provided that each application is scientifically distinct. 
AHRQ will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping
    applications under review at the same time.  This means that AHRQ will not
    accept:

 A new (A0) application that is submitted before issuance of the
      summary statement from the review of an overlapping new (A0) or resubmission
      (A1) application.
 A resubmission (A1) application that is submitted before issuance
      of the summary statement from the review of the previous new (A0) application.
 An application that has substantial overlap with another
      application pending appeal of initial peer review (see NOT-OD-14-074).

Section IV. Application and Submission Information
1. Requesting an
    Application Package
Buttons to access the online ASSIST system or to download
    application forms are available in Part
    1 of this FOA. See your administrative office for instructions if you plan
    to use an institutional system-to-system solution.
2. Content and Form of Application Submission
It is critical that applicants follow the Research (R) Instructions
    in the SF424
    (R&R) Application Guide, including Supplemental
    Grant Application Instructions except where instructed in this funding
    opportunity announcement to do otherwise. Conformance to the requirements in
    the Application Guide is required and strictly enforced. Applications that are
    out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for
    review.
For information on Application Submission and Receipt, visit Frequently
    Asked Questions – Application Guide, Electronic Submission of Grant
    Applications.
Letter of Intent 
A letter of intent is NOT required for this funding
    opportunity. 
Page Limitations
All page limitations described in the SF424 Application
    Guide and the Table of
    Page Limits must be followed. 
Instructions for Application Submission
The following section supplements the instructions found in
    the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide and should be used for preparing an
    application to this FOA.
SF424(R&R) Cover
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
SF424(R&R) Project/Performance Site Locations
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
SF424(R&R) Other Project Information
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
SF424(R&R) Senior/Key Person Profile 
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
R&R or Modular Budget
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed. 
Budget Component:  Special Instructions for AHRQ
    applications
AHRQ is not using the Modular Grant Application and Award
    Process.   Applicants applying for funding from AHRQ should ignore
    application instructions concerning the Modular Grant Application and Award
    Process, and prepare applications using instructions for the Research and
    Related Budget Components of the SF 424 (R&R).  Applications submitted
    in the Modular format will not be reviewed.
R&R Subaward Budget
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed. 
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
PHS 398 Research Plan
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed, with the following additional instructions:  

 Introduction (required for a resubmission or revision
      application) is limited to 1 page. 
 Specific Aims is limited to 1 page. 
 Research Strategy section, including tables, graphs, figures,
      diagrams, and charts, is limited to 12 pages. 

Resource
    Sharing Plan: Individuals are required to comply with the
    instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
    Application Guide, with the following modification:

 Generally, Resource Sharing Plans are expected, but they are not
      applicable for this FOA.

Appendix: 
Only limited Appendix materials are allowed. Follow all
    instructions for the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application
    Guide. 
Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow
    all instructions for the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R)
    Application Guide.  See NIH/NIOSH/AHRQ New Policy Appendix Guide located
    at NOT-OD-18-126
PHS Human Subjects and Clinical Trials Information
When involving human subjects research, clinical research,
    and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research
    experience) follow all instructions for the PHS Human Subjects and Clinical
    Trials Information form in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide, with the
    following additional instructions:
If you answered "Yes" to the question "Are
    Human Subjects Involved?" on the R&R Other Project Information form,
    you must include at least one human subjects study record using the Study Record: PHS Human Subjects and
    Clinical Trials Information form or Delayed Onset Study record. 
Study
    Record: PHS Human Subjects and Clinical Trials Information
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
Delayed
    Onset Study
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
PHS Assignment Request Form
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
    must be followed.  
3. Unique Entity Identifier
    and System for Award Management (SAM)
See Part 2. Section III.1 for information regarding the
    requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and
    maintaining active registrations in System for Award Management (SAM), NATO
    Commercial and Government Entity (NCAGE) Code (if applicable), eRA Commons, and
    Grants.gov
4. Submission Dates and
    Times
Part I. Overview Information contains information about Key Dates and times. Applicants are encouraged to
    submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any
    application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. When
    a submission date falls on a weekend or Federal
    holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next
    business day.
Organizations must submit applications to Grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants
    across all Federal agencies). Applicants must then complete the submission
    process by tracking the status of the application in the eRA Commons, NIH’s electronic system, for grants
    administration. AHRQ and Grants.gov systems check the application against many
    of the application instructions upon submission. Errors must be corrected and a
    changed/corrected application must be submitted to Grants.gov on or before the application
    due date and time.  If a Changed/Corrected application is submitted after
    the deadline, the application will be considered late.
Applicants
    are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the eRA
    Commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. 
Information on the submission process and a definition of
    on-time submission are provided in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
5. Intergovernmental Review
    (E.O. 12372)
This initiative is not subject to intergovernmental
    review. 
6. Funding Restrictions
For efficient grant administration, AHRQ grant
    administration procedures will be used and conducted in accordance with the
    terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in
    the HHS Grants Policy Statement. The Grants Policy Statement can be found at http://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/grants/grants/policies-regulations/hhsgps107.pdf.
Pre-award costs are allowable. A grantee may, at its own
    risk and without AHRQ prior approval, incur obligations and expenditures to
    cover costs up to 90 days before the beginning date of the initial budget
    period of a new award if such costs are necessary to conduct the project and
    would be allowable under the grant, if awarded, without AHRQ prior approval. If
    specific expenditures would otherwise require prior approval, the grantee must
    obtain AHRQ approval before incurring the cost. AHRQ prior approval is required
    for any costs to be incurred more than 90 days before the beginning date of the
    initial budget period of a new award.
The incurrence of pre-award costs in anticipation of a
    competing or non-competing award imposes no obligation on AHRQ either to make
    the award or to increase the amount of the approved budget if an award is made
    for less than the amount anticipated and is inadequate to cover the pre-award
    costs incurred. AHRQ expects the grantee to be fully aware that pre-award costs
    result in borrowing against future support and that such borrowing must not
    impair the grantee's ability to accomplish the project objectives in the
    approved time frame or in any way adversely affect the conduct of the project. 
7. Other Submission
    Requirements and Information
Applications must be submitted electronically following the
    instructions described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.  Paper
    applications will not be accepted. 
Applicants must complete all required registrations
    before the application due date. Section
    III. Eligibility Information contains information about registration.
For assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission
    process, visit Applying
    Electronically. If you encounter a system issue beyond your control that
    threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must
    follow the Guidelines
    for Applicants Experiencing System Issues. For assistance with application
    submission, contact the Application Submission Contacts in Section VII.
Important
    reminders:
All PD(s)/PI(s) must include their eRA Commons ID in
    the Credential field of the Senior/Key Person Profile Component of the
    SF424(R&R) Application Package. Failure to register in the Commons
    and to include a valid PD/PI Commons ID in the credential field will prevent
    the successful submission of an electronic application to AHRQ. See Section III of this FOA for information on
    registration requirements.
The applicant organization must ensure that the DUNS
    number it provides on the application is the same number used in the
    organization’s profile in the eRA Commons and for the System for Award Management.
    Additional information may be found in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
See more tips for avoiding common errors. 
The applicant should pay particular attention to the
    application guide instructions concerning letters of support (including web
    link to the instructions). Letters of support, recommendation, or affirmation
    from any entity or individual not directly participating in the project should
    not be included.
Upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for
    completeness by the Center for Scientific Review, NIH and for responsiveness by
    AHRQ.  Applications that are incomplete will not be reviewed.
Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval of human subjects
    is not required prior to peer review of an application (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-HS-00-003.html).
    However, initiation of IRB review, if necessary or applicable, is strongly
    encouraged to assure timely commencement of research.
Although there is no immediate acknowledgement of the
    receipt of an application, applicants are generally notified of the review and
    funding assignment within eight (8) weeks
Post Submission Materials
Applicants are required to follow the instructions for
    post-submission materials, as described NOT-OD-17-066 via https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-17-066.html  Any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the
    policy.
Priority Populations
AHRQ supports research, evaluations, and demonstration
    projects concerning the delivery of health care in inner-city and rural areas
    (including frontier areas), and health care for priority populations. 
    Priority populations include low income groups, minority groups, women,
    children, the elderly, and individuals with special health care needs,
    including individuals with disabilities and individuals who need chronic care
    or end-of-life health care. 42 USC 299(c). Women and members of
    minority groups are included in all AHRQ-supported research projects involving
    human subjects, unless a clear and compelling rationale and justification is
    provided that inclusion is inappropriate, e.g. because of the lack of
    connection between the study and the health of women or particular
    minorities.  Investigators should review the document entitled, “AHRQ
    Policy on the Inclusion of Priority Populations,” which is available at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-HS-03-010.html.
    Applicants under this FOA should consider and discuss including priority
    populations in the research design as specified in this Notice.  
Public Access to AHRQ-Funded Scientific Publications
Investigators should review the document titled "AHRQ
    Announces new Policy for Public Access to AHRQ-Funded Scientific Publications"
    which is available at (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-HS-16-008.html). For
    all research arising from AHRQ support, this policy requires that AHRQ-funded
    authors submit an electronic version of the author’s final peer-reviewed
    accepted manuscript to the National Library of Medicine's PubMed Central (PMC)
    to be made publicly available within 12 months of the publisher’s date of
    publication.
Plan for Sharing Research Data
The precise content of the data-sharing plan will vary,
    depending on the data being collected and how the investigator is planning to
    share the data. Applicants who are planning to share data should describe
    briefly the expected schedule for data sharing; the format of the final
    dataset; the documentation to be provided; whether or not any analytic tools
    will be provided; whether or not a data-sharing agreement will be required and,
    if so, a brief description of such an agreement (including the criteria for
    deciding who can receive the data and whether or not any conditions will be
    placed on their use); and the mode of data sharing (e.g., under its own
    auspices by mailing a disk or posting data on its institutional or personal
    website or through a data archive or enclave). Investigators choosing to share
    under their own auspices may wish to enter into a data-sharing agreement.
    References to data sharing may also be appropriate in other sections of the
    application. 
The reasonableness of the data sharing plan or the rationale
    for not sharing research data will be assessed by the reviewers. However,
    reviewers will not factor the proposed data sharing plan into the determination
    of scientific merit or the priority score.
Data Confidentiality
The AHRQ confidentiality statute, 42 USC 299c-3(c), requires
    that information that is obtained in the course of AHRQ supported activities
    and that identifies individuals or establishments be used only for the purpose
    for which it was supplied.  Information that is obtained in the course of
    AHRQ-supported activities and that identifies an individual may be published or
    released only with the consent of the individual who supplied the information
    or is described in it.  There are civil monetary penalties for violation
    of the confidentiality provision of the AHRQ statute. 42 USC 299c-3(d). In
    the Human Subjects section of the application, applicants must describe
    procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of the identifying information to
    be collected.  The description of the procedures should include a
    discussion of who will be permitted access to this information, both raw data
    and machine readable files, and how personal identifiers and other identifying
    or identifiable data will be restricted and safeguarded.  Identifiable
    patient health information collected by grantees under this FOA will also be
    obtained and managed in accordance with the HIPAA Privacy Rule, 45 CFR Parts
    160 and 164.  
The grantee should ensure that computer systems containing
    confidential data have a level and scope of security that equals or exceeds
    that established by the HIPAA Security Rules if applicable (see HIPAA website
    in prior paragraph) and that established by the Office of Management and Budget
    (OMB) in OMB Circular No. A-130, Appendix III - Security of Federal Automated
    Information Systems. The applicability and intended means of applying these
    confidentiality and security standards to subcontractors and vendors, if any,
    should be addressed in the application. 
Sharing Research Resources:  Rights in Data
Unless otherwise provided in grant awards, AHRQ grantees may
    copyright, or seek patents for, as appropriate, final and interim products and
    materials developed in whole or in part with AHRQ support, including, but not
    limited to, methodological tools, measures, software with documentation,
    literature searches, and analyses.  Such copyrights and patents are
    subject to a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable AHRQ license to
    reproduce, publish, use or disseminate for Federal purposes, and to authorize
    others to do so. In accordance with AHRQ's research dissemination mandate, such
    products and materials will be made available to the public and the health care
    community. AHRQ purposes may include but are not limited to making project
    materials, databases, results, and algorithms available for verification or
    replication by other researchers.   Ordinarily, to accomplish
    distribution, AHRQ publicizes research findings but relies on grantees to
    publish research results in peer-reviewed journals and to market
    grant-supported products.  AHRQ requests that grantees notify the Office
    of Communications (OC) when an AHRQ-funded research article has been accepted for
    publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Researchers should submit manuscripts
    that have been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal to JournalPublishing@ahrq.hhs.gov at least four to six weeks in advance of the journal’s expected publication
    date.  


Section V. Application Review Information

 Important Update: See NOT-OD-18-228 for updated review language for due dates on or after January 25, 2019.

1.
    Criteria
The mission of AHRQ is to produce evidence to make health
    care safer, higher quality, more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and to
    work with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and other
    partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and used.  
AHRQ's
    priority areas of focus are:

 Research to improve health care patient safety.
 Harnessing data and technology to improve health care quality and
      patient outcomes and to provide a 360-degree view of the patient.
 Research to increase accessibility and affordability of health
      care by examining innovative market approaches to care delivery and financing.

As part of this mission, applications submitted to AHRQ to
    support health services research are evaluated for scientific and technical
    merit through the AHRQ peer review system. 
Applications that are complete and responsive to the FOA
    will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer
    review group convened in accordance with standard AHRQ peer review procedures
    that are described in 42 CFR Part 67, Subpart A. Incomplete and/or
    non-responsive applications or applications not following instructions given in
    this FOA will not be reviewed. 
As part of the initial merit review, all applications will:

 Undergo a selection process in which only those applications
      deemed to have the highest scientific merit will be discussed and assigned a
      priority score;
 Receive a written critique.
 Merit Review Criteria:  Merit Review Criteria, as described
      below, will be considered in the review process.

For this particular announcement, note the following:
The R03 small grant supports discrete, well-defined projects
    that realistically can be completed in two years (or less) within the budget
    constraints of the mechanism.  Because the research strategy section of
    the application is limited to 6 pages, an R03 grant application may not contain
    the same level of detail or extensive discussion as that found in an R01
    application.  Accordingly, reviewers should evaluate the conceptual
    framework and general approach to the problem.  Appropriate justification
    for the proposed work can be provided through literature citations, data from
    other sources, or from investigator-generated data.  Preliminary data are
    not required, particularly in applications proposing pilot or feasibility
    studies. 
Overall Impact 
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
    their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained,
    powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the
    following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the
    project proposed).
Scored Review Criteria
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
    the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. An
    application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to
    have major scientific impact. For example, a project that by its nature is not
    innovative may be essential to advance a field.
Significance
Does the project address an
    important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? Is there a
    strong scientific premise for the project? If the aims of the project are
    achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical
    practice be improved? How will successful completion of the aims change the
    concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative
    interventions that drive this field?   
Investigator(s)
Are the PD(s)/PI(s), collaborators,
    and other researchers well suited to the project? If the project is collaborative
    or multi-PD/PI, do the investigators have complementary and integrated
    expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational
    structure appropriate for the project?    
Innovation
Does the application challenge and
    seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing
    novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or
    interventions? Are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation,
    or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? Is a
    refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches
    or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?    
Approach
Are the overall strategy,
    methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the
    specific aims of the project? Have the investigators presented strategies to
    ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? Are
    potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success
    presented? If the project is in the early stages of development, will the
    strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? Have
    the investigators presented adequate plans to address human subjects?  
If the project involves human
    subjects and/or clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection
    of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of
    individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as AHRQ's
    Priority Populations justified in terms of the scientific goals and research
    strategy proposed?   
Environment
Will the scientific environment in
    which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? Are the
    institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the
    investigators adequate for the project proposed? Will the project benefit from
    unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or
    collaborative arrangements?    
Additional Review Criteria
As applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will
    evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and
    technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give
    separate scores for these items.
Protections for Human Subjects
For research that involves human
    subjects but does not involve one of the six categories of research that are
    exempt under 45 CFR Part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for
    involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk
    relating to their participation according to the following five review
    criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3)
    potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to
    be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.
For research that involves human
    subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the six categories of
    research that are exempt under 45 CFR Part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the
    justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and
    characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. For additional information on
    review of the Human Subjects section, please refer to the Guidelines for the Review of Human
    Subjects via https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/regulations-and-policy/regulations/45-cfr-46/index.html ..
Degree of Responsiveness
Reviewers will assess how well the application addresses the
    purpose and objectives of this FOA. How responsive is the application to the
    special eligibility criteria, including the project requirements, noted in the
    FOA? 
Budget and Period of Support
The committee will evaluate whether the proposed budget is
    reasonable, and whether the requested period of support is appropriate in
    relation to the proposed research. 
Inclusion of Priority Populations 
Reviewers will assess the adequacy of plans to address the
    needs of both genders, racial and ethnic minorities (and subgroups). 
    Reviewers will assess the adequacy of attention to AHRQ priority populations
    (see above discussion on Priority Populations in section IV.7 “Other Submission
    Requirements”).
Resubmissions
For Resubmissions, the committee
    will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the
    responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes
    made to the project. 
Renewals
For Renewals, the committee will
    consider the progress made in the last funding period. 
Revisions
For Revisions, the committee will
    consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the
    project. If the Revision application relates to a specific line of
    investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended
    for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the
    responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate
    and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.
Additional Review Considerations
As applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will
    consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items,
    and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.
 Not applicable.   
2. Review and Selection
    Process 
Applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical
    merit by an appropriate Scientific Review Group in accordance with the stated review criteria. Assignment to a Scientific Review
    Group will be shown in the eRA Commons
As part of the scientific peer review, all applications:

 May undergo a selection process in which only those applications
      deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top
      half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact
      score. 
 Will receive a written critique.

Applications will
    compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted
    in response to this FOA.
The following will be considered in making funding
    decisions: 

 Scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as
      determined by scientific peer review. 
 Availability of funds. 
 Responsiveness to goals and objectives of the FOA.
 Relevance and fit within AHRQ research priorities, as well as
      overall programmatic and geographic balance of the proposed project to program
      priorities.

3. Anticipated Announcement and Award Dates
After the peer review of the application is completed, the
    PD/PI will be able to access his or her Summary Statement (written critique)
    via the eRA
    Commons. Refer to Part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council
    review, and earliest start date.

    Information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the HHS
    Grants Policy Statement (see https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html).
Section VI. Award
    Administration Information
1. Award Notices
If the application is under consideration for funding, AHRQ
    will request "Just-In-Time" information from the applicant. 
    Just-In-Time information generally consists of information on other support,
    any additional information necessary to address administrative and budgetary
    issues, and certification of IRB approval of the project's proposed use of
    human subjects.  For details regarding IRB approval, applicants may refer
    to the "AHRQ Revised Policy for Institutional Review Board (IRB) Review of
    Human Subjects Protocols in Grant Applications" (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html). 

    If all administrative and programmatic issues are resolved, a formal
    notification in the form of a Notice of Award (NoA) will be provided to the
    applicant organization for successful applications. The NoA signed by the AHRQ
    grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via
    email to the e-mail address designated by the recipient organization during the
    eRA Commons registration process. 

    Awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in Section  IV.6. Funding Restrictions.
    Selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin
    performance. Any costs incurred before receipt of the NoA are at the
    recipient's risk. These costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered
    allowable pre-award costs.       

    Any application awarded in response to this FOA will be subject to the DUNS,
    SAM Registration, and Transparency Act requirements as noted on the AHRQ web
    site at https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/index.html.
      
2. Administrative and
    National Policy Requirements
All
    AHRQ grant and cooperative agreement awards are subject to HHS’s “Uniform
    Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS
    Awards,” (http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75), the HHS
    Grants Policy Statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html), and the
    terms and conditions set forth in the Notice of  Award (NoA). As
    necessary, additional Terms and Conditions will be incorporated into the NoA.
A standard term and condition of award will be included in
    the Notice of Award (NoA) that states:  “in any grant-related activity in
    which family, marital, or household consideration are, by statute or
    regulation, relevant for purposes of determining beneficiary eligibility or
    participation, grantees must treat same-sex spouses, marriages, and households
    on the same terms as opposite-sex spouses, marriages, and households,
    respectively. By “same-sex spouses,” HHS means individuals of the same sex who
    have entered into marriages that are valid in the jurisdiction where performed,
    including any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory
    or in a foreign country, regardless of whether or not the couple resides in a
    jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex marriage.  By “same-sex marriages,”
    HHS means marriages between two individuals validly entered into in the
    jurisdiction where performed, including any of the 50 states, the District of
    Columbia, or a U.S. territory or in a foreign country, regardless of whether or
    not the couple resides in a jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex
    marriage.  By “marriage,” HHS does not mean registered domestic
    partnerships, civil unions or similar formal relationships recognized under the
    law of the jurisdiction of celebration as something other than a marriage.”
All applicants will be subject to a term and condition that
    applies the terms of 48 CFR section 3.908 to the award, and requires that
    grantees inform their employees in writing of employee whistleblower rights and
    protections under 41U.S.C. 4712 in the predominant native language of the
    workforce.
Recipients of federal financial assistance (FFA) from HHS
    must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law.
    This means that recipients of HHS funds must ensure equal access to their
    programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability,
    age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. This includes ensuring your
    programs are accessible to persons with limited English proficiency.  HHS
    recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons
    that are nondiscriminatory, such as the Principal Investigator’s scientific
    interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other
    considerations. Thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude
    certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications
    establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or
    safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the
    research.
For additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply
    to AHRQ grant programs, please contact the Scientific/Research Contact that is
    identified in Section VII under Agency Contacts of this FOA. HHS provides
    general guidance to recipients of FFA on meeting their legal obligation to take
    reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with
    limited English proficiency. Please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/fact-sheet-guidance/index.html.
    The HHS Office for Civil Rights also provides guidance on complying with civil
    rights laws enforced by HHS. Please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html;
    and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/index.html Recipients of FFA also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified
    individuals with disabilities. Please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/.
    l. Please contact the HHS Office for Civil Rights for more information about
    obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html o or call 1-800-368-1019 or TDD 1-800-537-7697. Also note it is an HHS
    Departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care,
    including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. 
For further guidance on providing culturally and
    linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the National
    Standards for Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services in Health and
    Health Care at https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.
In accordance with the statutory provisions contained in
    Section 872 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal
    Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417), AHRQ awards will be subject to the Federal
    Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) requirements.
    FAPIIS requires Federal award making officials to review and consider
    information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance
    system (currently FAPIIS) prior to making an award. An applicant, at its
    option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance
    systems accessible through FAPIIS and comment on any information about itself
    that a Federal agency previously entered and is currently in FAPIIS. The
    Federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in
    addition to other information in FAPIIS, in making a judgment about the
    applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under Federal
    awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in
    45 CFR Part 75.205 “Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by
    applicants.”  This provision will apply to all AHRQ grants and cooperative
    agreements except fellowships.
3. Reporting
When multiple years are involved, awardees will be required
    to submit the Research
    Performance Progress Report (RPPR) annually unless specified otherwise in
    the terms of the award.   
For details regarding annual progress report submission,
    refer to https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/noncomp.html.
     If instructions on the AHRQ website are different from the RPPR
    Instructions, follow the instructions on the AHRQ website. Annual progress
    reports are due 3 months before the anniversary of the award. In addition to
    the annual progress report, recipients may be required to submit quarterly
    progress reports to AHRQ. If applicable, detailed instructions on additional
    reporting requirements will be provided with the grant award.
Grantees are required to submit expenditure data on the
    Federal Financial Report (FFR; SF 425) annually.
Expenditure data is to be reported on the Federal Financial
    Report (FFR; SF 425). AHRQ requires annual financial expenditure reports for
    ALL grant programs as described in the HHS Grants Policy Statement
    (https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html). AHRQ
    implementation of the FFR retains a financial reporting period that coincides
    with the budget period of a particular project.  However, the due date for
    annual FFRs is 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the
    budget period ends.  For example, if the budget period ends 4/30/2018, the
    annual FFR is due 9/30/2018 (90 days after the end of the calendar quarter of
    6/30/2018).
A final Progress Report, final Federal Financial Report, and
    Final Invention Statement are required when an award ends.  All final
    reports are due within 90 days of the project period end date.  For
    further details regarding grant closeout requirements, refer https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/closeout.html. 
The Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of
    2006 (Transparency Act), includes a requirement for awardees of Federal grants
    to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation
    under Federal assistance awards issued in FY2011 or later.  All awardees
    of applicable AHRQ grants and cooperative agreements are required to
    report to the Federal Subaward Reporting System (FSRS) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. See the HHS Grants Policy Statement (https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html)
    for additional information on this reporting requirement.
In accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at
    45 CFR 75.113 and Appendix XII to 45 CFR Part 75, recipients that have
    currently active Federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement
    contracts from all Federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value
    greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of
    performance of a Federal award, must report and maintain the currency of
    information reported in the System for Award Management (SAM) about civil,
    criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or
    performance of a Federal award that reached final disposition within the most
    recent five-year period.  The recipient must also make semiannual
    disclosures regarding such proceedings. Proceedings information will be
    made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system
    (currently FAPIIS).  This is a statutory requirement under section 872 of
    Public Law 110-417, as amended (41 U.S.C. 2313).  As required by section
    3010 of Public Law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity
    and performance system on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance
    reviews required for Federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. 
    Full reporting requirements and procedures are found in Appendix XII to 45 CFR
    Part 75 – Award Term and Conditions for Recipient Integrity and Performance
    Matters.
Section VII. Agency Contacts
We encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity
    and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants. 


Application Submission Contacts
eRA Service Desk (Questions regarding ASSIST, eRA Commons
    registration, submitting and tracking an application, documenting system
    problems that threaten submission by the due date, post submission issues)
    Finding Help Online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)
    Telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (Toll Free) 
Grants.gov
    Customer Support (Questions
    regarding Grants.gov registration and submission, downloading forms and
    application packages)
    Contact Center Telephone: 800-518-4726 
    Email: support@grants.gov 
GrantsInfo
    (Questions regarding application instructions and process, finding NIH grant
    resources)
    Email: GrantsInfo@nih.gov (preferred method
    of contact)
    Telephone: 301-945-7573


Scientific/Research Contact(s)
 Direct your questions regarding
    program matters to the AHRQ staff by specific program and portfolio area, which
    can be found at: http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/priorities-contacts/contacts/index.html.
Peer Review Contact(s)
Direct your questions about peer review issues of grant
    application made in response to this FOA to:
Division of Scientific Review
Office of Extramural Research, Education, and Priority Populations
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
Email: DSR@ahrq.hhs.gov
Financial/Grants Management Contact(s)
Direct your questions regarding fiscal matters to:
Office of Management Services 
    Division of Grants Management
    Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)
    Email address: GMI@ahrq.hhs.gov
Section VIII. Other
    Information
Recently issued AHRQ policy notices may affect your
    application submission. A full list of policy notices published by AHRQ is
    provided at https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/polnotice/index.html. 
Authority and Regulations
This program is described in the Catalog of Federal Domestic
    Assistance at http://www.cfda.gov/ and is
    not subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order
    12372 or Health Systems Agency review. Awards are made under the authority of
    
    42 USC 299 et seq., and in accordance with 45 CFR Part 75 and other referenced
    applicable statutes and regulations.  All awards are subject to the terms
    and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the HHS
    Grants Policy Statement. The HHS Grants Policy Statement can be found at http://www.ahrq.gov/fund/hhspolicy.htm.







Weekly TOC for this Announcement
NIH Funding Opportunities and Notices




 







 
Department of Health
      and Human Services (HHS)


  



 NIH... Turning Discovery Into Health® 





Note: For help accessing PDF, RTF, MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Audio or Video files, see Help Downloading Files.





